docs/rst/guides/debugging-with-openocd-gdb.rst, before:

Debugging with OpenOCD and GDB
=================================

This tutorial will use **HelloWorld** as an example. But this will work for any application you build.


Step 0: Installing OpenOCD
----------------------------
OpenOCD was installed when you ran the initial :code:`./setup` script.

Step 1: Rebuild Application with Debug flag
---------------------------------------------
Run:

.. code-block:: bash

	./build spotless
	./build -d HelloWorld

.. note::

	:code:`./build spotless` will delete all of the files in the :code:`obj` and :code:`bin` folder. This is necessary because some files in the lib folder need to be updated with the new -d (debug) flag.

Step 2: Solder JTAG Headers to SJOne
--------------------------------------
Do as the title says if you haven't already.

Step 3: Connecting BusBlasterv3 to SJOne
------------------------------------------
Connect jumpers from the :code:`GND`, :code:`TRST`, :code:`TDI`, :code:`TMS`, :code:`TCK`, and :code:`TDO` pins on the **BusBlasterv3** to the SJOne's JTAG headers.

.. danger::
	DOUBLE AND TRIPLE CHECK THAT YOUR CONNECTIONS! The SJOne costs $80 and the BusBaster costs $35! Thats $115 down the drain if your burn them out!

Step 4: Run OpenOCD
---------------------
Run:

.. code-block:: bash

	# If you used make install
	openocd -f ./tools/OpenOCD/sjone.cfg

.. tip::

	Successful output is the following:

	.. code-block:: bash

		Info : clock speed 100 kHz
		Info : JTAG tap: lpc17xx.cpu tap/device found: 0x4ba00477 (mfg: 0x23b (ARM Ltd.), part: 0xba00, ver: 0x4)
		Info : lpc17xx.cpu: hardware has 6 breakpoints, 4 watchpoints

.. error::

	If you see the following message:

	.. code-block:: bash

		Error: JTAG-DP STICKY ERROR
		Info : DAP transaction stalled (WAIT) - slowing down
		Error: Timeout during WAIT recovery
		Error: Debug regions are unpowered, an unexpected reset might have happened

	Then the SJOne board is being held in a RESET state. To fix this, either by power cycling the SJOne board or by deassert the RTS and DTR signals through GTKTerm.

.. error::

	If you see your terminal get spammed with this:

	.. code-block:: bash

		Error: JTAG-DP STICKY ERROR
		Error: Invalid ACK (7) in DAP response
		Error: JTAG-DP STICKY ERROR
		Error: Could not initialize the debug port

	Then its a good chance that one of your pins is not connected.

Step 5: Run GDB
---------------------
Open another terminal and run the following command in the :code:`firmware/default/` folder.

.. code-block:: bash

	arm-none-eabi-gdb -ex "target remote :3333" bin/HelloWorld/HelloWorld.elf

.. tip::

	You can run arm-none-eabi-gdb without arguments and use the following gdb commands
	:code:`file bin/HelloWorld/HelloWorld.elf`
	then
	:code:`target remote :3333`
	in the gdb command line interface to get the same effect as the above command.

At this point the SJOne board has been halted. You should be able to add breakpoints to the program at this point and step through the code.

At this point you will not see any source code. Do the following in the gdb command line interface:

.. code-block:: bash

	>>> break main
	>>> continue

.. tip::

	Don't use the typical run command to "start" the code. It is already... kinda started. Also, run does not exist when using :code:`target remote :3333` to OpenOCD. It exists with :code:`target extended-remote :3333`, but causes issues... just don't use it OK.

At this point you should see the source code of your :code:`main.cpp` show up. Now you can step through your code and set breakpoints using :code:`step`, :code:`next`, :code:`finish` and :code:`continue`, :code:`break`, etc.

For a gdb cheat sheet, see this PDF:

	http://darkdust.net/files/GDB%20Cheat%20Sheet.pdf

.. error::

	If your board keeps restarting, this is due to the Watchdog not getting fed. Although, this shouldn't happen if you ran step 0 correctly. If you do a build spotless and build your project again with the -d flag, and this still does not work, then as a last resort, go into the lpc_sys.c file and comment out the :code:`enable_watch_dog()` function call.

Commit message:

Removing FreeRTOS and FreeRTOS related code from HelloWorld (#8)
* Removing FreeRTOS and FreeRTOS related code from HelloWorld

* Alpha (#5)

* adding IDE files to .gitignore

* mac and linux setup is now handled separately
added minor TODOs plus dependency checks

* added curl install for linux

* cleaning up script

* updated readme for contrib and release notes, spelling, dependency installs for linux

* fast forward pull from old repo adding back missing code
fixing .gitignore to ignore test files

* markup fixes

* Made i2c_base state machine weak
Makefile shows error alert when you attempt to build without sourcing env.sh
Makefile now has a default behavior that tell you the options you have

* Added unit tests as apart of the travis testing
Added error alert to makefile.test
Swapped cd ../ => cd $BASE and the like from setup file.
    Default OS case will back out of root project directory, also bad form
Removed some unecessary variables from makefile

* Updated documentation to reflect current changes

* Updated ubuntu image

* Updated ubuntu image

docs/rst/guides/debugging-with-openocd-gdb.rst, after:

Debugging with OpenOCD and GDB
=================================

This tutorial will use **HelloWorld** as an example. But this will work for any application you build.

Prerequisites
---------------
The official supported JTAG probes for the SJOne board is the SEGGER J-LINK mini EDU. Any other J-Link device will work with no modifications to the :code:`sjone.cfg` file. Otherwise, change the interface/source to the appropriate adapter.

Step 0: Installing OpenOCD
----------------------------
OpenOCD was installed when you ran the initial :code:`./setup` script if you are running Linux or WSL. If you are running OS X, install manually.

Step 1: Solder JTAG Headers to SJOne
--------------------------------------
Do as the title says if you haven't already.

Step 2: Connecting J-Link to SJOne
------------------------------------------
Connect jumpers from the :code:`GND`, :code:`TDI`, :code:`TMS`, :code:`TCK`, and :code:`TDO` pins on the **J-Link** to the SJOne's JTAG headers.

.. danger::
	DOUBLE AND TRIPLE CHECK THAT YOUR CONNECTIONS! The SJOne costs $80 and the BusBaster costs $35! Thats $115 down the drain if your burn them out!

Step 3: Run OpenOCD
---------------------
Run:

.. code-block:: bash

	# If you used make install
	openocd -f ./tools/OpenOCD/sjone.cfg

.. tip::

	Successful output is the following:

	.. code-block:: bash

		Info : clock speed 100 kHz
		Info : JTAG tap: lpc17xx.cpu tap/device found: 0x4ba00477 (mfg: 0x23b (ARM Ltd.), part: 0xba00, ver: 0x4)
		Info : lpc17xx.cpu: hardware has 6 breakpoints, 4 watchpoints

.. error::

	If you see the following message:

	.. code-block:: bash

		Error: JTAG-DP STICKY ERROR
		Info : DAP transaction stalled (WAIT) - slowing down
		Error: Timeout during WAIT recovery
		Error: Debug regions are unpowered, an unexpected reset might have happened

	Then the SJOne board is being held in a RESET state. To fix this, either by power cycling the SJOne board or by deassert the RTS and DTR signals through GTKTerm.

.. error::

	If you see your terminal get spammed with this:

	.. code-block:: bash

		Error: JTAG-DP STICKY ERROR
		Error: Invalid ACK (7) in DAP response
		Error: JTAG-DP STICKY ERROR
		Error: Could not initialize the debug port

	Then its a good chance that one of your pins is not connected.

Step 5: Run GDB
---------------------
Open another terminal and run the following command in the :code:`firmware/default/` folder.

.. code-block:: bash

	arm-none-eabi-gdb -ex "target remote :3333" bin/firmware.elf

.. tip::

	You can run arm-none-eabi-gdb without arguments and use the following gdb commands
	:code:`file bin/firmware.elf`
	then
	:code:`target remote :3333`
	in the gdb command line interface to get the same effect as the above command.

At this point the SJOne board has been halted. You should be able to add breakpoints to the program at this point and step through the code.

At this point you will not see any source code. Do the following in the gdb command line interface:

.. code-block:: bash

	>>> break main
	>>> continue

.. tip::

	Don't use the typical "run" command to start the code. It is already started in the firmware. Also, run does not exist when using :code:`target remote :3333` to OpenOCD. It exists with :code:`target extended-remote :3333`, but causes issues... just don't use it OK.

At this point you should see the source code of your :code:`main.cpp` show up. Now you can step through your code and set breakpoints using :code:`step`, :code:`next`, :code:`finish` and :code:`continue`, :code:`break`, etc.

For a gdb cheat sheet, see this PDF:

	http://darkdust.net/files/GDB%20Cheat%20Sheet.pdf

.. error::

	If your board keeps restarting, this is due to the Watchdog not getting fed. Although, this shouldn't happen if you ran step 0 correctly. If you do a build spotless and build your project again with the -d flag, and this still does not work, then as a last resort, go into the lpc_sys.c file and comment out the :code:`enable_watch_dog()` function call.
